                                 Closed End Second ｭ Standard and Alt Doc

                                            Maximum CLTV ｭ Standard Doc

Loan Amount        Credit Score  Primary Residence                     Second Home                                Investment

                   740                      90                          80                                                        75

$350,000           700                      85                          80                                                        65

                   680                      75                          75                                                        NA

                   740                      85                          75                                                        75

$500,000           700                      85                          75                                                        65

                   680                      75                          70                                                        NA

                                                Maximum CLTV ｭ Alt Doc

Loan Amount        Credit Score  Primary Residence                     Second Home                                Investment
   $350,000
                         740                85                                 75                                       70
   $500,000              700                80                                 70                                       60
                         680                75                                 65                                      NA
                         740                80                                 70                                       65
                         700                75                                 65                                       60

                         680                70                                 60                                      NA

                                                         Property Type

 Single Family (Attached, Detached, PUD) ,Condominiums (Max CLTV 80%)
 2-4 Unit residential properties (Max CLTV 75%) ,Rural: Not eligible

Housing History                  Credit Event Seasoning                Forbearance,                     First Time Home Buyer
                                                                Modification, or Deferral

          0x30x12                BK/FC/SS/DIL/PreFC/MC/NOD: >=         > 12 Mo                          Not Allowed
                                                    48 Mo

                                                                                         State Eligibility

 Not Eligible: Texas and Territories of Puerto Rico, Guam, & the US Virgin Islands
 State Overlays for CT, FL, IL, NJ, NY:
 Single Family, Condominiums: Max CLTV 80%, min credit score 720 o 2-4 Units: Max CLTV 75%, min credit score 720

                                                                                        Declining Market

 If the appraisal report identifies the property in a declining market, the maximum CLTV is limited to 80% for all transactions.

  Product and                                                                    General Requirements
       Term
                   Fixed Rate - Fully amortizing terms of 10, 15, 20, 25 & 30 years
Loan Amounts
                   Min: $50,000 Max: $500,000
Combined Loan          The CLTV of the combined loan balances are restricted as follows:
     Balance                      Combined loan balance > $2,000,000 ｭ maximum 80% CLTV
                                  combined loan balance > $3,000,000 ｭ maximum 75% CLTV
 Loan Purpose                     Maximum combined loan balance for all liens not to exceed $4,000,000
                       Stand-Alone Cash Out (minimum ownership of 6 months required)
                       Simultaneous Purchase, First Lien must be an Agency-eligible loan

Occupancy Primary, Second Home, Investment

Cash-Out Max cash-out: $500,000

Eligible Borrower   U.S. Citizen
                    Permanent Resident Alien
                    Non-Permanent Resident Alien: Max 80% CLTV

Ineligible Loan     Lien Free Properties ｭ if the subject property is lien free, including delayed financing, ineligible.
   Features         Unseasoned cash-out ｭ if the existing lien is a cash-out, measured within six (6) months of the note date to note date.
                    Frequent Refinances ｭ Two (2) or more cash-out refinances in the past twelve (12) months.
                    All existing subordinate liens must be satisfied except for solar panels, see Solar Panels section of Verus Seller Guide.
                    All Solar Panel loans and leases with PACE/HERO financing must be paid off.
                      Closed End Second ｭ Standard and Alt Doc, continued

    Standard Doc                                                      Income Requirements
   Personal Bank
                       Wage/Salary: Paystubs, 1-year or 2-years W-2's, IRS Form 4506-C, Verbal VOE
      Statements       Self-Employed: 1-year or 2-years of Personal and Business (If applicable) Tax Returns, YTD P&L, IRS Form 4506-C

   Business Bank       12- or 24-months of personal and 2-months of business bank statements
      Statements       Qualifying income is determined by the total eligible deposits from the 12- or 24-months of personal statements divided by the

   IRS Form 1099           number of statements
                       The business bank statements must reflect business activity and transfers to the personal account
     Written VOE
                       12 or 24-months of business bank statements. Qualifying income is determined by one of the following analysis methods:
Desktop Underwriter    Fixed Expense Ratio (50%)
     (DU) or Loan      Expense ratio provided by a 3rd party (CPA, EA, or tax preparer) with min ratio of 10% o 3rd party prepared Profit & Loss

   Product Advisor         Statement (CPA, EA, or tax preparer)
          (LPA)
                       1-year or 2-years 1099
                       Fixed Expense Ratio of 10%
                       YTD documentation to support continued receipt of income

                       FNMA Form 1005
                       Two (2) most recent months of personal bank statements reflecting deposit(s) from employer on each of the statements
                       Max CLTV 80%

                       Final AUS findings must be included in the loan file of Fannie Mae: DU Approve/Eligible, or o Freddie Mac: LPA Accept/Eligible
                       Ineligible, Caution, or Refer with Caution not allowed
                       For simultaneous purchase transactions only
                       Findings permitted to be used for income, asset, and liability documentation
                       Appraisal must follow the requirements of this program (appraisal waiver option from findings not eligible) Max DTI based upon

                           CLTV restrictions for this program. See DTI section.

Eligibility Criteria                                             Underwriting Requirements
     First Lien
                      For criteria that is not referenced in this matrix, follow the Closed End Second chapter in the Non-Agency Seller Guide
Credit and Fraud
                           First lien documentation requirements, all of the following apply:
                                      Copy of 1st lien Note
                                      Default interest rate on Note cannot exceed Note rate
                                      If Interest Only and/or ARM, terms of the Note to be reviewed (See DTI Requirements) o Copy of most recent monthly
                                          mortgage payment statement
                                      Utilized to determine if payment includes escrows (See DTI Requirements)

                           Ineligible First liens with high-risk features which can include, but are not limited to:
                                      Forbearance, modifications, or deferrals completed or reinstated within 12- months of the Note date o Loans in active
                                          forbearance or deferment
                                      Negative amortization including loans with Paid-In-Kind (PIK) features
                                      Balloon, if the balloon payment becomes due during the amortization period of the new 2nd lien o Reverse Mortgages o
                                          Loans secured by more than one underlying property, including cross collateralized loans or blanket mortgages o Home
                                          Equity Line of Credit
                                      Note with default interest rate greater than the Note rate

                           Credit report
                           Gap credit report or Undisclosed Debt Monitoring (UDM) Fraud report
                           OFAC

 Qualifying Credit         Use representative credit score of the borrower with the highest qualifying income
        Score
                           Verify the 1st lien P&I payment with all of the following:
First Lien Payment                    Copy of 1st lien Note, and
     Verification                     Copy of most recent monthly mortgage payment statement
     Tradelines
      Reserves             Min: 2 reporting 24-months with/activity in the last 12-months or 3 reporting 12-months w/recent activity
        Assets             If the primary borrower has three (3) credit score, the minimum tradeline requirement is waived

DTI Requirements      None required

Age of Documents      Asset verification required if funds needed to consummate the transaction

                           Maximum DTI ratio:
                                      50% DTI for CLTV less than or equal to 80% o 45% DTI for CLTV greater than 80%

                           Qualifying payment for first lien:
                                      Stand-alone: Utilize senior lien mortgage payment from credit report o Simultaneous: Utilize 1st lien qualifying method

                           Fixed rate: Note rate amortized over the total term
                           ARMs: Qualifying rate is the higher of the fully indexed rate or note rate
                           Interest Only (Fixed/ARM): Qualifying rate amortized over remaining term after expiration of the interest only period

                           Credit Documents: May not be over 120-days old at the time of closing.
                           Appraisals, Title Report (or O&E): May not be over 120-days old at time of closing.

                                      AVM may not be over 90- days old at time of closing.
                 Closed End Second ｭ Standard and Alt Doc, continued

                                                      Appraisal Requirements

 HPML loans that are not Qualified Mortgages require a full appraisal with an interior inspection, regardless of loan balance.
 Any simultaneous transaction requires a full appraisal.
 Transferred appraisals are eligible.
 Primary valuation and secondary valuation are required for all loan files.
 Primary Valuation - Loan Amount <=$250,000 Provide one of the following:
 AVM from approved vendor with an acceptable FSD score and a new Property Condition Report with acceptable findings o AVM

     may not be more than 90 days old at closing (date the Note is signed)
 Exterior Drive-By appraisal (Hybrid or 2055 or 1075) o Only allowed for one (1) unit property, with or without an accessory dwelling

     unit
 New Appraisal (FNMA Form 1004/1025/1073)
 Prior 1st lien appraisal dated within 12- months of subject loan Note date allowed subject to:

           The lender on the prior appraisal must be the same as the subject loan, and o A new Property Condition Report with
                acceptable findings, and o Recertification of value by the original appraiser.

 Broker Price Opinion (BPO) from one of the following:
           Clear Capital, or o Consolidated Analytics, or o Computershare, or
           Stewart Valuation Intelligence

 Primary Valuation - Loan Amount >$250,000 Provide one of the following:.
           New Appraisal (FNMA Form 1004/1025/1073)
           Prior 1st lien appraisal dated within 12- months of subject loan Note Date allowed subject to:

 The lender on the prior appraisal must be the same as the subject loan, and o A new Property Condition Report with acceptable
     findings, and o Recertification of value by the original appraiser, and o AVM from approved vendor with an acceptable FSD score.

 AVM may not be more than 90 days old at closing (date the Note is signed)
 The lower of the Prior Appraisal value or the current AVM will be used to determine CLTV
 Secondary Valuation Product

           Secondary valuation (review product) required in every file, through one of the following: Acceptable review products
                include one of the following:
                      The Seller may submit the appraisal report to Collateral Underwriterｮ (CU) or Loan Collateral Advisorｮ (LCA). An
                           eligible score is 2.5 or less. The file must include a copy of the Submission Summary Report (SSR). Only one score
                           required, if both scores (CU & LCA) provided, both required to be 2.5 or less. If the score exceeds 2.5, the file must
                           include either an enhanced desk review, field review, or second appraisal; or
                      An enhanced desk review product from one of the following:
                                 ARR from Stewart Valuation Intelligence FKA Pro Teck.
                                 CDA from Clear Capital.
                                 CCA from Consolidated Analytics.
                                 VRR from Homegenius Real Estate
                                 Valreview Appraisal Review Value from Valligent (Veros Software Company) o If the enhanced desk review
                                      or BPO product reflects a value more than 10% below the appraised value or cannot provide a validation,
                                      the file must include either a field review or a second appraisal. A field review or a second appraisal is
                                      acceptable. These may not be from the same appraiser or appraisal company as the original report.
                                 AVM from an approved vendor with an acceptable FSD score.
                                 If primary valuation is based on an AVM, review must be from a different vendor.
                                 If two AVMs are ordered, the AVM with the higher FSD score (closest to zero) will be treated as the primary
                                      valuation product.
                                 The second AVM will be treated as the secondary valuation product and must support the primary AVM
                                      within 10%. If the second AVM does not support the primary AVM within 10%, the file must include either a
                                      BPO, exterior-only appraisal, or full appraisal.
                                 If both AVMs have the same FSD, the lower of the two property values must be utilized for determining the
                                      CLTV.
                                 Broker Price Opinion (BPO)
                                            If two BPOs are ordered, the BPO with the lowest value will be treated as the primary valuation
                                                 product.
                                            If two BPOs are ordered, they must be completed by different brokers.
                   Closed End Second ｭ Standard and Alt Doc, continued

                   AVM Vendor             The following AVM vendors are acceptable:
                                                                       Acceptable FSD Score
AVM and FSD Score       Clear Capital
                    Collateral Analytics                                       0.00 to 0.13
                                                                               0.00 to 0.10
                       House Canary                                            0.00 to 0.10
                   Red Bell Real Estate                                        0.00 to 0.10

                       (Homegenius)

     Property      When required, a Property Condition Report (i.e., Clear Capital Property Condition Inspection) should be obtained to
Condition Report   include an exterior photo of the subject property along with a rating of the property's physical condition and characteristics.
 Recently Listed   Properties currently listed for sale or previously listed for sale within the past 6-months are not eligible

    Properties          Loan Amount <=$250,000, provide one of the following
                                  Owner and Encumbrance Report (O&E) to include: o Current Grantee / Owner
 Title Insurance                            How property was conveyed to current owner o Liens (e.g., mortgage, UCC, other financing) o
                                                Involuntary liens and judgements
Flood Certificate                           Property Tax Information with break-down of all taxes including special assessments o Legal
    and Flood                                   Description
    Insurance                     ALTA Full Title Policy
                                  ALTA Short Form Residential Limited Coverage Junior Loan Policy
                                  ALTA Full Title Policy
                                  ALTA Short Form Residential Limited Coverage Junior Loan Policy

                        Flood determination required for every loan file
                        Properties within a flood zone require evidence of insurance coverage in accordance with the HFIAA o Loss payee

                            clause must reflect seller as additional insured.
